Now in the last lecture, we already created our first Vue application and got started with it.
Now let's enhance it a little bit more before I
then of course dive much deeper into it in the next course sections.
So what I want to do right now though is I want to add an input field.
I can do this by typing input and hitting tab which will give me that JSFiddle and now in this
input here I want to allow the user to type something there and update my title depending on what the
user enters.
Well, I can do this by adding a command to this input field here, an instruction Vue.js will recognize. This
is called a directive.
The directive I need is v-on and this is just set a special command Vue.js will recognize.
Keep in mind this whole part is under control of Vue.
And then the thing this v-on command tells Vue.js is,
please listen to some event. Now which event?
I pass this as an argument and arguments are passed to directives by adding a colon and then the name
of the argument;
in this case the name of the event I want to listen to. It's the input event which is fired on every
keystroke.
And then I assign a value to this and between the quotation marks I would now write the code which I
want to execute
whenever this gets updated.
So here what I want to do is, I want to call a method and calling a method is very simple.
I can simply call changeTitle here.
Now of course this method doesn't exist yet,
so let's create it. Creating methods is simple. As with data,
Vue.js has also got a reserved property in the Vue instance which is called methods; and no worries,
you will learn about all these reserved property names and how they work throughout the course. methods is again
an object
and here we simply set up all the methods we want to use either in our template or from within our
Vue instance.
So here I named it changeTitle up there,
so let's name it
changeTitle here too. This is a function therefore,
and now in this function I want to change my title.
And here's the first important thing,
I won't say data.title
or something like that;
Instead I can say this.title =
Now 'this' (referring to the data object) certainly looks a bit strange and it is strange.
It's some magic being done in the background by Vue.js. It proxies all our data properties like title
to the top Vue instance object automatically;
which is why we can access it with 'this'.
I will come back to this later in the course, but for now it's just important to keep in mind you got
access to all the properties stored in data and also to all the methods stored in methods by accessing
them with this.
and then the name.
So this title gives me access to the title stored here and now I want to assign you value to user entered
into the input.
Well thankfully, as with vanilla JavaScript, there is this event object being created automatically
for me.
This has nothing to do with Vue.js, this is vanilla JavaScript and how that DOM works.
I get this event object which, for example, also stores the target of the event which of course will be this
input field.
Now this event object which is created automatically by JavaScript is passed to this method automatically
by Vue.js.
So I can fetch it because I know it will receive an argument and I'll name it event. This again is this default
event object created by JavaScript.
Now you can simply say event. I know that this default object has a target property and I know that the target
will be the input field of which I know it will have a value property holding the value the user entered.
Well and with this in place, that's all if we now Ctrl-Enter again we see this input and if we type
something there we see that it updates our title.
This is awesome I'd say.
This is our first Vue.js application and we built it in like eight minutes.
Really awesome!
So with that, let's see how you can work your way through this course, what this course has to offer, how
you could set up the same example locally on your machine,
before we then dive super-deep into Vue.js and the next lectures.